Do you ever wonder why so many ancient and modern spiritual practices include singing or chanting?
Scene 3
Or why deep, slow breathing or meditation is recommended if you feel stressed out or anxious?
Scene 4
All these practices have one thing in common.
Scene 5
And it’s found deep inside you. It’s the vagus nerve. It's one of 12 cranial nerves that connects your brain to your body.
Scene 6
Its name comes from the Latin word “vaga,” which means “to wander,” which is perfect for the longest cranial nerve in your body.
Scene 7
It links your brain to your face and throat, lungs and heart, and stomach, and intestines.
Scene 8
And it has a dual purpose - to receive sensory information and send out signals to control muscles, kind of like a 2-way radio.
Scene 9
It helps with rest and digestion.
Scene 11
And it’s the opposite of the fight or flight system, so it helps you calm down after you’ve been startled.
Scene 12
It sounds like it does a lot for me behind the scenes, so why should I bother to learn about it?
Scene 13
Great question! If we’re not careful, we can damage our vagus nerve, causing all kinds of problems throughout the body. Unfortunately, there are many ways to damage it.
Scene 14
High levels of stress over long period of time,
Scene 15
Eating a diet low in vital nutrients and high in processed foods,
Scene 16
And even poor posture, which leads to shallow breathing, can damage the vagus nerve.
Scene 17
But armed with knowledge, you can use that 2-way radio to your advantage by stimulating the vagus nerve in healthy ways.
Scene 18
Those people singing or chanting in church? They’re stimulating their vagus nerve!
Scene 19
And those people meditating or breathing deeply? They’re also stimulating their vagus nerve!
Scene 20
So, keep scrolling below to learn more about the vagus nerve, and unlock the superpower of calm hidden deep inside you.